# JarvisGPT - A ChatGPT powered virtual assistant that can run commands on your computer!

This python app utilizes OpenAI API to allow users to write or talk to ChatGPT, and it will reply with either a normal
ChatGPT-like answer, or it will run an actual command on your computer to complete the task that you asked it to. 

## How it works

This program provides ChatGPT with context to act like Jarvis from Iron Man, and letting it know that it can run commands on the user's machine. 
All we need is to provide it with the right instructions and explain how it should reply with actual Linux/Windows commands, instead of full texts replies that explains how to do things, then we can parse the commands and run them on the computer. 

The "genesis_context" in the "main.py" file is responsible for setting up ChatGPT's personality, then the "jarvis.py" file in the modules folder runs the loop that parses responses and runs commands on the local machine.

### Example usage
- You can ask it general questions like you would in ChatGPT's website, e.g. "What is the temperature of the sun?".
- You can ask it a general question and tell it to save the information on your computer: "Create a new text file on my desktop and write an interesting fact about the sun in it".
- This also works recursively by asking it to create multiple files: "Create 5 text files named after different planets in our solar system and write a short sentence about the planet in each file." A video example can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iaFsU53QBi4
- You can ask it for information about your computer (works better in Linux): "How much free space do I have left on my hard drive?".
- You can provide it with context on a specific path/folder in your computer: "List all folders in my home folder" -> then "Go into the projects folder".
- You can ask it to open/close apps for you: "Open vscode in the projects folder" or "Open my browser".
- You can ask it to search for stuff in search engines directly: "Search for pictures of cats on google" and it will open the relevant page in your browser. 
- You can do more complex tasks with JarvisGPT. Here's a video example of how I created a Terraform project with it: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E8eTYkdRsFc


## How to run
### On linux:
1. Install text-to-speech dependencies:
  - `sudo apt-get install portaudio19-dev python3-pyaudio espeak`
  - `sudo apt-get install mbrola mbrola-en1` - normal english voice for linux since espeak sounds like stephen hawking. 
2. Install requirements from the "requirements.txt" file in this folder: `pip install -r requirements`.
3. Open the "environment" file in this folder and input your OpenAI API key, your username as it is written in the operating system, and any other settings you'd like to change, then rename the file to ".env".
4. Run the "main.py" file in this folder with `python3 main.py`.

### On Windows:
1. Install requirements from the "requirements.txt" file in this folder: `pip install -r requirements`
2. Open the "environment" file in this folder and input your OpenAI API key, your username as it is written in the operating system, and any other settings you'd like to change, then rename the file to ".env".
3. Run the "main.py" file in this folder with `python3 main.py`.

### On Mac:
WIP. Not available for Macs yet. 


## Other/General info
- OpenAI API key can be generated by signing up to OpenAI's website and going to this link: https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys
- Type or say `help` in JarvisGPT to get more info on how it works and what you can do. 
- For running actual complex commands, it is best to use the CLI mode in Linux as it works best, since CLI is clearer than voice prompts, and Linux's syntax for chaining commands is much clearer than Windows.
- If you encounter any dependencies issues or errors, check the log file that will be created in this folder when you run the app.
- If needed, you can contact me via Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/yaronka/

## Warnings
This is a proof-of-concept app only and is not intended for serius/professional use. The code is provided as-is without any failsafes or guarantees.
Please use this app with caution - while JarvisGPT does not have admin/sudo privileges, it can still delete/modify/move actual files/folders in your user's home folder! so make sure you are providing it with the correct instructions/context before telling it to do anything of that sort. 

## License
Free to use for personal use only. You may not use any of this code for any commercial applications/intentions without my written consent.

## Future features / TODO
- Add Mac support.
- Add the ability to switch between voice and cli/text modes while the app is running.
- Add continuous listening even while Jarvis is talking, so it would be possible to tell him to "stop" or "mute" mid-sentence.
- Cleanup jarvis.py module and un-spaghetti it. 